 The word of the Lord came to Jonah the son of Amittai, saying, "Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it, for their wickedness has come up before Me." But Jonah rose up to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. So he went down to Joppa, found a ship going to Tarshish, paid the fare, and went down into it to go with them to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord.

The Lord hurled a great wind on the sea, and there was a great storm on the sea, so that the ship was about to break up. Then the sailors became afraid, and every man cried out to his god, and they threw the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten it for them. But Jonah had gone down into the hold of the ship, and he had lain down and was fast asleep. So the captain approached him and said, "What are you doing asleep? Get up! Call on your God! Perhaps your God will be concerned about us so that we will not perish."

Each man said to his mate, "Come, let us cast lots, so we may know on whose account this calamity has struck us." So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah. Then they said to him, "Tell us now! On whose account has this calamity struck us? What is your occupation? Where do you come from? What is your country? From what people are you?"

He said to them, "I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land." Then the men became exceedingly afraid, and they said to him, "How could you do this?" For the men knew that he was fleeing from the presence of the Lord, because he had told them.

So they said to him, "What should we do to you that the sea may become calm for us?" For the sea was becoming increasingly stormy. He said to them, "Pick me up and throw me into the sea; then the sea will become calm for you, for I know that this great storm has come upon you because of me."

Nevertheless, the men rowed hard to return to land, but they could not, for the sea was growing more tempestuous against them. Then they called on the Lord and said, "We pray, O Lord, please do not let us perish for this man’s life and do not charge us with innocent blood; for You, O Lord, have done as You pleased." So they picked up Jonah and threw him into the sea, and the sea stopped its raging. Then the men feared the Lord greatly, and they offered a sacrifice to the Lord and made vows.

And the Lord appointed a great fish to swallow Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights.