And He said, “A man had two sons.
And the younger of them said to his father, ‘Father, give me the share of the estate that falls to me.’ So he divided his wealth between them.
And not many days later, the younger son gathered everything together and went on a journey into a distant country, and there he squandered his estate, living recklessly.
Now when he had spent everything, a severe famine occurred in that country, and he began to be in need.
And he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.
And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the swine were eating, and no one was giving anything to him.
But when he came to himself, he said, ‘How many of my father’s hired men have more than enough bread, but I am dying here with hunger!
I will arise and go to my father, and will say to him, “Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in your sight;
I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me as one of your hired men.”’
So he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion for him, and ran and embraced him and kissed him.
And the son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and in your sight; I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’
But the father said to his slaves, ‘Quickly bring out the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet;
and bring the fattened calf, slaughter it, and let us eat and celebrate;
for this son of mine was dead and has come to life again; he was lost and has been found.’ And they began to celebrate.
Now his older son was in the field, and when he came and approached the house, he heard music and dancing.
And summoning one of the servants, he began inquiring what these things could be.
And he said to him, ‘Your brother has come, and your father has slaughtered the fattened calf because he has received him back safe and sound.’
But he became angry and was not wanting to go in; and his father came out and began pleading with him.
But he answered and said to his father, ‘Look! For so many years I have been serving you and I have never neglected a command of yours; and yet you have never given me a young goat, so that I might celebrate with my friends;
but when this son of yours came, who has devoured your wealth with prostitutes, you slaughtered the fattened calf for him.’
And he said to him, ‘Child, you have always been with me, and all that is mine is yours.
But we had to celebrate and rejoice, for this brother of yours was dead and has begun to live, and was lost and has been found.’”