 Nahash the Ammonite came up to besiege Jabesh-gilead. All the men of Jabesh said to him, "Make a treaty with us, and we will serve you." But Nahash the Ammonite replied, "I’ll make a treaty with you on one condition: I gouge out everyone’s right eye and humiliate all Israel." The elders of Jabesh said to him, "Give us seven days to send messengers throughout the territory of Israel. If no one comes to rescue us, we will then surrender to you."

When the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and told the terms to the people, all the people wept aloud. Just then, Saul was coming in from the field behind his oxen. Saul asked, "What’s the matter with the people? Why are they weeping?" The people told him about the demand of Nahash. When Saul heard these words, the Spirit of God rushed upon him, and his anger burned furiously. He took a team of oxen, cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout the whole territory of Israel by messengers who said, "This is what will be done to the oxen of anyone who does not follow Saul and Samuel." Then the terror of the Lord fell on the people, and they came together.

Saul mustered the troops at Bezek—three hundred thousand Israelites and thirty thousand men from Judah. He told the messengers who had come, "Tell the men of Jabesh-gilead, ‘Tomorrow, by the time the sun is hot, you will be rescued.’" So the messengers went and told the men of Jabesh, and they rejoiced. Then they said to Nahash, "Tomorrow we will come out, and you can do whatever you want to us."

The next day, Saul organized the troops into three divisions. During the last watch of the night, they came to the Ammonite camp and struck them down until the heat of the day. The survivors were scattered; no two of them were left together.

The people then said to Samuel, "Who said that Saul should reign over us? Give us those men, and we will kill them!" But Saul said, "No one will be executed this day, for today the Lord has provided salvation in Israel."

Then Samuel said to the people, "Come, let’s go to Gilgal, so we can renew the kingship there." So all the people went to Gilgal, and there they made Saul king in the Lord’s presence. There they sacrificed fellowship offerings in the Lord’s presence, and Saul and all the Israelites rejoiced greatly.

Samuel said to all Israel, "I have listened to everything you said to me and have set a king over you. Now you can see that the king is walking before you. I am old and gray, and my sons are here with you. I have walked before you from my youth until now. Here I am. Bring charges against me before the Lord and His anointed. Whose ox or donkey have I taken? Whom have I wronged or oppressed? From whose hand have I taken a bribe to make me blind? I will return it to you."

"You haven’t wronged us or oppressed us or taken anything from anyone’s hand," they replied.

He said to them, "The Lord is my witness against you, and His anointed is my witness today that you have found nothing in my hand." "He is my witness," they said.

Samuel said to the people, "The Lord who appointed Moses and Aaron and brought your ancestors up from the land of Egypt is my witness. Now, present yourselves so I may make a case before you before the Lord, for all the righteous acts of the Lord that He has done for you and your ancestors. When Jacob entered Egypt, your ancestors cried out to the Lord, and the Lord sent them Moses and Aaron, who led your ancestors out of Egypt and settled them in this place. But they forgot the Lord their God, so He handed them over to Sisera, commander of the army of Hazor, to the Philistines, and the king of Moab, who fought against them. They cried out to the Lord and said, ‘We have sinned, for we abandoned the Lord and worshiped the Baals and the Ashtoreths. Now deliver us from the hands of our enemies, and we will serve you.’

Then the Lord sent Jerubbaal, Bedan, Jephthah, and Samuel. He rescued you from the power of the enemies around you, and you lived securely. But when you saw that Nahash king of the Ammonites was coming against you, you said to me, ‘No! We must have a king rule over us,’ even though the Lord your God was your king. Now here is the king you have chosen, the one you requested. Look, the Lord has set a king over you. If you fear the Lord, worship Him, and listen to His voice and do not rebel against the Lord’s command, then both you and the king who reigns over you will follow the Lord your God. However, if you disobey the Lord and rebel against His command, the Lord’s hand will be against you as it was against your ancestors.

Now, therefore, present yourselves and see this great thing that the Lord will do before your eyes. Is the wheat harvest not today? I will call on the Lord, and He will send thunder and rain. You will know and see that your wickedness is great that you have done in the Lord’s sight by asking for a king." Samuel called on the Lord, and on that day, the Lord sent thunder and rain. As a result, all the people greatly feared the Lord and Samuel.

They begged Samuel, "Pray to the Lord your God for your servants, so we won’t die! For we have added to all our sins the evil of asking for a king." Samuel replied, "Don’t be afraid. You have committed all this evil; yet don’t turn away from following the Lord. Serve the Lord with all your heart. Don’t turn away to follow worthless idols that can’t profit or deliver you; they are worthless. The Lord will not abandon His people because of His great name, since it has pleased the Lord to make you His people.

As for me, I vow that I will not sin against the Lord by ceasing to pray for you. I will teach you the good and right way. Above all, fear the Lord and worship Him faithfully with all your heart; consider the great things He has done for you. If you continue to do evil, both you and your king will be swept away."