 About a month later, Nahash the Ammonite came and besieged the city of Jabesh-gilead. All the men of Jabesh asked him, “Give us time to send messengers to Israel. If no one comes to save us, we will agree to your terms.”

When the messengers came to Gibeah, Saul’s hometown, and told the people what had happened, they all wept aloud. Just then Saul was coming in from the field, having just returned from working with the oxen. “What’s the matter?” he asked. “Why is everyone crying?” So they told him about the message from Jabesh.

Then the Spirit of God came powerfully upon Saul, and he became very angry. He took two oxen and cut them into pieces and sent the messengers to carry them throughout Israel with this message: “This is what will happen to the oxen of anyone who refuses to follow Saul and Samuel into battle!” And the Lord made the people afraid, and they came together as one.

When Saul mobilized them at Bezek, he found that there were 300,000 men from Israel and 30,000 men from Judah. Saul said to the messengers who had come, “Tell the men of Jabesh-gilead, ‘Tomorrow you will be rescued! By noon tomorrow, you will be safe!’” The messengers went back and told the men of Jabesh, and they were delighted.

They said to Nahash, “Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you can do to us whatever you wish.” The next day Saul arranged his men into three groups and they invaded the Ammonite camp during the morning watch and killed every Ammonite until the heat of the day. Those who survived were so scattered that no two of them were left together.

Then the people exclaimed to Samuel, “Now where are those men who said, ‘Why should Saul be our king?’ Bring them here, and we will kill them!” But Saul replied, “No one will be put to death today, for today the Lord has rescued Israel!”

Then Samuel said to the people, “Come, let us go to Gilgal to renew the kingdom there.” So they went to Gilgal and in a solemn ceremony before the Lord, they made Saul king. Then they offered peace offerings to the Lord, and Saul and all the Israelites were filled with joy.

Samuel said to all Israel, “I have listened to everything you said to me and have given you a king. Your king is now your leader. I stand here before you—an old, gray-haired man—and my sons serve you. I have served as your leader from the time I was a boy to this very day. Now testify against me in the presence of the Lord and before his anointed one. Whose ox or donkey have I stolen? Have I ever cheated any of you? Have I ever oppressed you? Have I ever taken a bribe and perverted justice? Tell me, and I will make right whatever I have done wrong.”

“No, you have never cheated or oppressed us,” they replied. “You have never taken even a single bribe.”

The Lord and his anointed one are my witnesses today, Samuel declared. “You have not found any evidence of wrongdoing in me.” “You are right,” they replied.

It was the Lord who appointed Moses and Aaron and brought your ancestors out of the land of Egypt. Now stand here and see the great thing the Lord is about to do. You know that today is the day of the wheat harvest. I will ask the Lord to send thunder and rain today. Then you will realize how wicked you have been in asking the Lord for a king. So Samuel called to the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain that day. And all the people were terrified of the Lord and of Samuel.

Pray to the Lord your God for us, or we will die! They said to Samuel. For now we have added to our sins by asking for a king.

“Don’t be afraid,” Samuel replied. “You have certainly done wrong, but make sure now that you worship the Lord with all your heart and don’t turn your back on him. Don’t go back to worshiping worthless idols that cannot help or rescue you—they are totally useless! The Lord will not abandon his people, because that would dishonor his great name. For it has pleased the Lord to make you his very own people.

As for me, I will certainly not sin against the Lord by ending my prayers for you. And I will continue to teach you what is good and right. But be sure to fear the Lord and faithfully serve him. Think of all the wonderful things he has done for you. But if you continue to sin, you and your king will be swept away.”